Overview
HealthLynked is looking for data scientists, AI engineers, automation builders, and healthcare data specialists to design a repeatable, cost-efficient AI pipeline that keeps our provider and practice directory accurate and up to date.
HealthLynked maintains a healthcare provider and practice directory used by patients to search for doctors, practices, specialties, locations, phone numbers, and other provider-related information.
The problem is that healthcare provider data changes constantly:
• Providers move to new practices
• Practices close, merge, or rebrand
• Phone numbers and addresses change
• Providers join or leave groups
• Specialties and credentials may appear differently across sources
• Practice locations may have outdated suite numbers, phone numbers, or affiliations
• Multiple sources may conflict with each other
Manual maintenance is expensive, slow, and difficult to scale. We are looking for a practical AI-powered solution that can continuously detect, verify, and update provider/practice data while keeping operating costs low.

Description
Design or prototype a repeatable AI-powered pipeline that can help HealthLynked keep its provider and practice directory updated.

The system should be able to:

Identify provider and practice records that may be outdated.
Search reliable public and legally accessible sources for updated information.
Compare existing HealthLynked data against external sources.
Normalize provider names, practice names, addresses, phone numbers, specialties, and affiliations.
Detect potential duplicates, inactive providers, moved providers, and practice changes.
Assign a confidence score to each proposed update.
Automatically approve high-confidence updates.
Send uncertain or conflicting records to human review.
Maintain an audit trail of what changed, why it changed, and which sources supported the change.
Keep cost low by avoiding unnecessary paid APIs, unnecessary LLM calls, and unnecessary manual review.
We are not looking for one-time manual data cleanup. We are looking for a repeatable data pipeline that can run continuously or periodically.
Submission Requirements
What Participants Can Submit
Participants may submit one of the following:
Option A: Technical Architecture Proposal
A detailed implementation plan describing how the pipeline would work, including data sources, AI agents, validation logic, cost controls, and update workflows.
Option B: Working Prototype
A lightweight MVP that demonstrates part or all of the pipeline using sample provider/practice data.
Option C: Hybrid Submission
A prototype plus a detailed explanation of how it would scale in production.

Example Problem
Given an existing provider record:

{
"provider_id": "HL_001",
"provider_name": "John Smith, MD",
"npi": "1234567890",
"specialty": "Cardiology",
"practice_name": "ABC Heart Group",
"address": "100 Main St, Naples, FL 34102",
"phone": "239-555-1234",
"last_verified_date": "2023-09-01"
}

The system should determine whether the information is still accurate.
If updated information is found, the system should return a structured recommendation:
{
"provider_id": "HL_001",
"npi": "1234567890",
"change_detected": true,
"changes": [
{
"field": "address",
"old_value": "100 Main St, Naples, FL 34102",
"new_value": "250 Health Park Dr, Fort Myers, FL 33908",
"confidence_score": 0.92,
"supporting_sources": [
"NPI Registry",
"Practice Website",
"State Medical Board"
]
},
{
"field": "phone",
"old_value": "239-555-1234",
"new_value": "239-555-9000",
"confidence_score": 0.88,
"supporting_sources": [
"Practice Website",
"NPI Registry"
]
}
],
"overall_confidence": 0.90,
"recommended_action": "auto_update",
"reason": "Updated address and phone number were confirmed by multiple reliable sources."
}

If the sources conflict, the system should avoid making an unsafe update:
{
"provider_id": "HL_001",
"npi": "1234567890",
"change_detected": true,
"overall_confidence": 0.61,
"recommended_action": "human_review",
"reason": "Practice website and NPI Registry show different addresses. Manual verification recommended."
}
Desired Pipeline Architecture
A strong submission should include a pipeline similar to this:
HealthLynked Provider / Practice Database
↓
Find Outdated or Risky Records
↓
Search Trusted Sources
NPI, CMS, state boards, practice websites
↓
Collect Updated Provider / Practice Data
↓
Clean and Normalize Data
Names, addresses, phones, specialties
↓
Match Provider / Practice Records
↓
Assign Confidence Score
↓
Decision
No Change Auto Update Human Review
Record confirmed as accurate High-confidence update Low-confidence or conflicting data
↓
Save Audit Log + Update Provider Directory

Tracks and Awards
Proposal · $5,000
Participants may submit one of the following:
Option A: Technical Architecture Proposal
A detailed implementation plan describing how the pipeline would work, including data sources, AI agents, validation logic, cost controls, and update workflows.
Option B: Working Prototype
A lightweight MVP that demonstrates part or all of the pipeline using sample provider/practice data.
Option C: Hybrid Submission
A prototype plus a detailed explanation of how it would scale in production.


Winning Proposal
The team winning the proposal will be invited to colloaborate on the project and will be working with us as a consultant to implement the solution for next 3 months. They will be compensated for their consulting work as well.

$5,000
Evaluation
Evaluation Criteria
Submissions will be evaluated based on:
Accuracy
How well does the system identify correct updates and avoid incorrect changes?
Scalability
Can the approach work for thousands or millions of records?
Cost Efficiency
Does the solution minimize API costs, LLM usage, scraping costs, and manual labor?
Practicality
Can a lean engineering team realistically implement this?
Explainability
Does the system clearly explain why an update is recommended?
Data Quality
Does the solution normalize names, addresses, phone numbers, specialties, and practice affiliations?
Source Reliability
Does the system use trustworthy sources and handle conflicting sources properly?
Human Review Design
Does the system reduce manual review to only the cases that truly need it?
Audit Trail
Can every update be traced back to sources and confidence logic?

Bonus Points
Extra credit for:
• Working prototype
• Agent workflow diagram
• Cost estimate per 1,000 provider records
• Confidence scoring formula
• Sample human review dashboard
• Duplicate detection logic
• Address normalization strategy
• NPI validation
• Practice-location matching
• Provider movement detection
• Inactive/retired provider detection
• Change history and audit log
• Safe auto-update rules
• Clear implementation roadmap

Suggested MVP Scope
For an MVP, participants may focus on just these fields:
• Provider name
• NPI
• Specialty
• Practice name
• Address
• Phone number
• Website
• Active/inactive status
The MVP does not need to solve every healthcare data problem. We are more interested in a practical, repeatable pipeline than an overly complex one-time solution.